.TH IMAGE2XY "1" "July 2015" "0.56" "astrometry.net"
.SH NAME
image2xy \- Source extractor.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B image2xy
[options]
\fIfitsname.fits\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Read a FITS file, find objects, and write out X, Y, FLUX to fitsname.xy.fits.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-e\fR \fIextension\fR
Read from a single FITS extension
.TP
\fB\-O\fR
Overwrite existing output file.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIfile\fR
Write XYlist to given filename.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR \fIorder\fR
Lanczos order
.TP
\fB\-8\fR
Don't use optimization for byte (u8) images.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR
Downsample by a factor of 2 before running simplexy.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fIfactor\fR
Downsample by an integer factor before running simplexy.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR \fIfactor\fR
Downsample, if necessary, by this many factors of two.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIscale\fR\fR
Set median\-filter box size (default 100 pixels)
.TP
\fB\-w\fR \fIwidth\fR
Set Gaussian PSF sigma (default 1 pixel)
.TP
\fB\-g\fR \fIsigma\fR
Set image noise level
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIsignificance\fR
Set significance level of peaks in sigmas (default 8 sigmas)
.TP
\fB\-a\fR \fIsaddle\fR
Set "saddle" level joining peaks i sigmas (default 5 sigmas)
.TP
\fB\-P\fR \fIplane\fR
Pull out a single plane of a multi-color image (default: first plane)
.TP
\fB\-b\fR
Don't do (median-based) background subtraction
.TP
\fB\-G\fR \fIbackground\fR
Subtract this 'global' background value; implies \fB\-b\fR
.TP
\fB\-m\fR
Set maximum extended object size for deblending (default 2000 pixels)
.TP
\fB\-S\fR \fIfile\fR
Save background\-subtracted image to this filename (FITS float image)
.TP
\fB\-B\fR \fIfile\fR
Save background image to filename
.TP
\fB\-U\fR \fIfile\fR
Save smoothed background\-subtracted image to filename
.TP
\fB\-M\fR \fIfile\fR
Save mask image to filename
.TP
\fB\-C\fR \fIfile\fR
Save connected\-components image to filename
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Verbose. repeat for more and more verboseness
.TP
image2xy 'file.fits[1]'
Process first extension.
.TP
image2xy 'file.fits[2]'
Process second extension
.TP
image2xy file.fits+2
Same as above
.SH AUTHOR
The Astrometry.net team. Principal investigators are David W. Hogg (NYU) and
Dustin Lang (CMU).
.SH SEE ALSO
http://astrometry.net
