.TH PLOT-CONSTELLATIONS "1" "July 2015" "0.56" "astrometry.net"
.SH NAME
plot-constellations \- Annotates images with constellations etc.
.SH SYNOPSIS
plot-constellations 
\fB\-w\fR \fIfile\fR | \fB\-L\fR | \fB\-o\fR \fIfile\fR 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Annotates images with constellations, bright stars, Messier/NGC objects,
Henry Draper catalog stars, etc.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-w\fR \fIfile\fR
WCS input file
.TP
\fB\-L\fR
just list the items in the field
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIfile\fR
image output file; "\-" for stdout
.TP
.TP
\fB\-p\fR
write PPM output \- default is PNG
([\fB\-i\fR \fIPPM input file\fR]
OR [\fB\-W\fR \fIwidth\fR \fB\-H\fR \fIheight\fR] )
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIscale\fR
scale image coordinates by this value before plotting.
.TP
\fB\-N\fR
plot NGC objects
.TP
\fB\-F\fR \fIfraction\fR
minimum NGC size, relative to image size (default 0.02)
.TP
\fB\-C\fR
plot constellations
.TP
\fB\-B\fR
plot named bright stars
.TP
\fB\-D\fR
plot HD objects
.TP
\fB\-d\fR
path to HD catalog
.TP
\fB\-b\fR \fIN\fR
just plot the \fIN\fR brightest stars
.TP
\fB\-c\fR
only plot bright stars that have common names.
.TP
\fB\-j\fR
if a bright star has a common name, only print that
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
be verbose
.TP
\fB\-n\fR \fIwidth\fR
NGC circle width (default 2)
.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fIsize\fR
font size.
.TP
\fB\-M\fR
show only NGC/IC and Messier numbers (no common names)
.TP
\fB\-G\fR \fIspacing\fR
Plot RA,Dec grid with specified grid spacing in arcmin.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR \fIr\fR:\fIg\fR:\fIb\fR
grid color (default 0.2:0.2:0.2)
.TP
\fB\-J\fR
print JSON output to stderr
.TP
\fB\-V\fR
vertical alignment of text labels, "C"enter/"T"op/"B"ottom: default C
.TP
\fB\-O\fR
horizontal alignment of text labels, "L"eft/"C"enter/"R"ight, default L
.SH AUTHOR
The Astrometry.net team. Principal investigators are David W. Hogg (NYU) and
Dustin Lang (CMU).
.SH SEE ALSO
http://astrometry.net
