.TH PLOTXY "1" "July 2015" "0.56" "astrometry.net"
.SH NAME
plotxy \- plots circles, crosses, etc over images.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B plotxy
[options]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-i\fR \fIfile\fR
Input file (xylist)
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIfile\fR
Output file (default: stdout)
.TP
\fB\-I\fR \fIimage\fR
Input image on which plotting will occur; PPM format.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR
Input image is PNG format, not PPM.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR
Write PPM output instead of PNG.
.TP
\fB\-J\fR
Write PDF output.
.TP
\fB\-W\fR \fIwidth\fR
Width of output image (default: data\-dependent).
.TP
\fB\-H\fR \fIheight\fR
Height of output image (default: data\-dependent).
.TP
\fB\-x\fR \fIoffset\fR
X offset: position of the bottom\-left pixel (default: 1).
.TP
\fB\-y\fR \fIoffset\fR
Y offset: position of the bottom\-left pixel (default: 1).
.TP
\fB\-X\fR \fIname\fR
X column: name of the FITS column.
.TP
\fB\-Y\fR \fIname\fR
Y column: name of the FITS column.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR \fIobj\fR
First object to plot (default: 0).
.TP
\fB\-N\fR \fInum\fR
Number of objects to plot (default: all).
.TP
\fB\-r\fR \fIradius\fR
Size of markers to plot (default: 5.0).
.TP
\fB\-w\fR \fIwidth\fR
Linewidth (default: 1.0).
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIshape\fR
Shape of markers (default: circle): circle, crosshair, square, diamond, X, Xcrosshair
.TP
\fB\-C\fR \fIcolor\fR
Color to plot in (default: white): darkred, red, darkgreen, green, blue, verydarkblue, white, black, cyan, magenta, yellow, brightred, skyblue, orange, gray, darkgray
.TP
\fB\-b\fR \fIcolor\fR
Draw in \fIcolor\fR behind each marker.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR \fIfactor\fR
Scale xylist entries by this value before plotting.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR \fIext\fR
FITS extension to read (default 0).
.SH AUTHOR
The Astrometry.net team. Principal investigators are David W. Hogg (NYU) and
Dustin Lang (CMU).
.SH SEE ALSO
http://astrometry.net
